Hey guys, Stefan here from Civils AI and
in this quick demo, I'm going to be
showing you how you can use natural
language prompting to extract quantities
from CAD drawing PDFs. So you'll see
here on the left the prompt that I used
in this example, which is measure and
categorize the floor areas and wall
lengths, count the doors, toilets, and
sinks. And here we have our plan drawing
PDF, which has been run through this
process and is now annotated. On the
left, you'll see the different
quantities we've read off. So what AI
does is it reads if it's a metric or an
imperial drawing. It will then
automatically scale this drawing um by
either reading off the scale as it's
given in the title block or it will read
off using measurements from the drawing
itself and calibrate the measurements
accordingly. Then here on the left we'll
do a breakdown. So according to the
labels which are given on the drawing we
read off the different types of
quantities. So in this case, each of
these different floor areas has a label.
We've read these off accordingly. We'll
read off lengths. So the different types
of walls. In this case, if the there
aren't labels given or a legend, then it
will just default to a kind of numbering
system, which would say wall type one,
wall type two based on the kind of
hatching pattern or the um line type
that's used for the walls. But if there
is a legend given, it will also pair
that back to the labels given. So we can
also do counts. So we can count objects.
So in this case, we were asking it to
count off these different items in the
prompt. And then at the end of this, we
can download this as an Excel file. So
in this case, I've got a breakdown of
the totals that we saw here on the left
already. And we've also got a breakdown
according to the different page uh pages
as well. So page one breakdown of the
areas, page one breakdown of the lengths
etc for each drawing sheet. So we
quantify each one.
In terms of how this is actually set up
and run, it's quite straightforward. So
on civils AI you can create projects and
then within those projects is this
workflows button. So extract quantities
from CAD. So I just click this button. I
select or I upload which drawings I want
to use. So, in this case, I'm not going
to upload more, but I'm going to select
some that I've already um got uh and I
basically just add these um into this
workflow. So, you'll see them there on
the left. And then I can type in here
the scope. So, this is the natural
language prompt of what I want AI to
read off. So measure the floor areas
um or measure and group
the floor areas, measure the wall
lengths
and so on. I can write whatever I want
in this prompt. I basically click run up
here to start the process. So this will
start processing away. Depending on the
complexity of the task, it will take
different amounts of time to run. But we
send you an email notification once the
processing has completed. Uh so you'll
see here the status goes to running and
once it's done it will go to completed.
Uh in the meantime I can also show you
here what we can do. So we can read off
these types this type of information.
Currently civils AI is limited to floor
plans and site plan drawings. And um
you'll be able to quantify information
like this shown in this drawing right
here. So, if you're interested uh to get
started and to test Civil AI, please do
reach out to us and we can set you up
with with a trial or feel free to even
pay for your own license and just get
started on your own. So, check out
Civils AI if you're interested and thank
you for listening. Bye-bye.